# ProtoIt
Educational software to get on with robotics via prototyping without the need of coding (Dutch language)

ProtoIt delivers a gui in which users drag and drop sensor signals into screen tiles of the required actuators and functions.
A robot program evolves step by step literally when the user adds steps with such tiles in it.
When finished, ProtoIt will create code, compile it and upload it to the robot.
At the moment ProtoIt supports Lego Mindstorms, MBot, Arduino (uno/mega) and Raspberry (rasbian).

Screenshots are available under the item 'Screenshots'

Install ProtoIt on Windows:
---------------------------
Download the setup file from: 'ProtoIt Windows Setup/ProtoIt_1.0_win32_nl_setup.exe'.
Run the setup file.

Install ProtoIt on Raspbian:
----------------------------
Download the 'ProtoIt.tar.gz' and 'ProtoItInstall' files into the same directory.
Make sure that 'ProtoItInstall' can be run by the user (right click, choose Properties and then tab User rights)
Double click on 'ProtoItInstall' choose to run it from the shell.
The installation will get the necessary files from the Qt repository first and then install ProtoIt.

Append new devices:
-------------------
It is not needed to modify the ProtoIt program in order to supply new sensors and actuators for a platform.
The code that make a device function is supplied via a '.pid' file. You will find the supported devices in
the directory tree starting with 'ProtoIt Windows Release/platforms' or 'ProtoIt Raspbian Release/platforms'.
You can use them as a template to create your own devices.

Modify ProtoIt itself:
----------------------
The following background information is needed to create your own fork of ProtoIt.
The program is written in C++ using Qt-Creator. Keep the directory structure as is in the git.
You will find a 'ProtoIt.pro' and 'ProtoItHelpCreator.pro' in the ProtoIt and ProtoItHelpCreator directories.
The setup file of the Windows version is generated by Inno-Script-Studio and resides in the 'ProtoIt Windows Setup' directory.
The ProtoIt program acts as a developing environment and does not contain support for any robot type.
It needs additional definition files and compilers to program with. They are divided in platform, programmer and version specific files.
For Lego Mindstorms the nxc-compiler is used, for MBot and Arduino the winavr utils and for Raspberry the nixg environment.

Different languages:
--------------------
ProtoIt can easily be changed to support different languages. At the moment only a Dutch version is provided in this git.
If you download the sources and use the Qt Linguist, you can create your own program in a different language.
Be aware that also the '.pid' files and '.html' files in the platform specific maps need to be translated.
The files can be edited in an ordinary editor. ProtoIt does not support multiple languages with the same installation.
